[Fix #599] Add Python documentation (#600)
apache/incubator-kie-kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/integrations/custom-functions-python.adoc

= Invoking Python from {product_name}
:compat-mode!:
// Metadata:
:description: Describe Python execution capabilities
:keywords: kogito, workflow, quarkus, serverless, python, AI

This document describes how to integrate python scripts and functions into your workflow using {product_name} custom functions. The code appearing in this document is copied from link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-python-quarkus[`serverless-workflow-python-quarkus`] example application and link:{kogito_runtimes_url}/quarkus/addons/python/integration-tests/src/main/resources/PythonService.sw.json[PythonService] integration test.

== Enable Python support

>  To enable Python support, you need to the python add-on dependency to your {prouct_name} module `pom.xml` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 To enable Python support, you must add the Python add-on dependency to your {prouct_name} module `pom.xml` file
```

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.kie.sonataflow</groupId>
      <artifactId>sonataflow-addons-quarkus-python</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Invoking embedded Python script.

> {product_name} supports of execution python script in the same memory address than the running workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{product_name} supports the execution of Python script in the same memory address as the running workflow.
```

> To invoke a python script the first step is to define a custom python function at the beginning of the flow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To invoke a Python script the first step is to define a custom Python function at the beginning of the flow. 
```

[source,json]
----
 "functions": [
    {
      "name": "python",
      "type": "custom",
      "operation": "script:python"
    }
  ]
----

> Once done, you can use that function several times to execute arbitrary python code. The python code is provided as argument of the function call through `script` property. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once done, you can use that function several times to execute arbitrary Python code. The Python code is provided as an argument of the function call through the `script` property. 
```

[source,json]
----
"functionRef": 
    "refName": "python",
    "arguments": {
      "script": "import numpy as np"
     }
 }
----

> Previous snippet imports link:https://numpy.org/[numpy] library. The same python function can be invoked again to generate an array containing three random numbers between 0 and 10. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previous snippet imports link:https://numpy.org/[numpy] library. The same Python function can be invoked again to generate an array containing three random numbers between `0` and `10`. 
```

[source,json]
----
"functionRef": {
   "refName": "python",
   "arguments": {
      "script": "rng = np.random.default_rng().integers(low=0,high=10,size=3)"
    }
  }
----

> To access the result of the embedded python invocation, {product_name} provides an special context variable: `$WORKFLOW.python`. Therefore, if you want to set `rng` variable from previous script as `output` property of the workflow model, you write 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the result of the embedded python invocation, {product_name} provides a special context variable: `$WORKFLOW.python`. Therefore, if you want to set the `rng` variable from the previous script as the `output` property of the workflow model, you write 
```

[source,json]
----
"stateDataFilter" : {
  "output" : "{result:$WORKFLOW.python.rng}"
}
----

== Invoking Python function. 

You can also invoke functions from standard or custom python modules. 

> You need to define a serverless workflow function definition that invokes the python function. You should specific, within `operation` property, the name of the python module and function to be invoked when the function is called. You should separate the module name and the function name using `::` and prefix them with `services::python:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must define a serverless workflow function definition that invokes the Python function. You should specify, within the `operation` property, the name of the Python module and function to be invoked when the function is called. You should separate the module name and the function name using `::` and prefix them with `services::python:`
```

> The following example defines a function that invokes standard python function link:https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-math-factorial-function/[math.factorial(x)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example defines a function that invokes a standard Python function link:https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-math-factorial-function/[math.factorial(x)]
```

[source,json]
----
 "functions" : [ {
    "name" : "factorial",
    "operation" : "service:python:math::factorial",
    "type" : "custom"
  } 
----

Once you have defined the function, you might call it passing the expected arguments. In the case of factorial, a integer stored in property `x` of the workflow model. 

[source,json]
----
 "functionRef" : {
          "refName": "factorial",
          "arguments" : ".x"
       }
----

> The return value of the function can be handled as any other function result using `actionDataFilter.toStateData` Serverless Workflow construct. The following will set a workflow model property called `result` with the factorial invocation returned value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The return value of the function can be handled as any other function result using the `actionDataFilter.toStateData` Serverless Workflow construct. The following will set a workflow model property called `result` with the factorial invocation returned value. 
```

[source,json]
----
  "actionDataFilter" : {
        "toStateData" : ".result"
      }
----

== Further reading 

> The link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-openvino-quarkus[Openvino] illustrates the powerful AI capabilities of integrating workflows with Python. It is a must seen for all interested on the topic. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-openvino-quarkus[Openvino] illustrates the powerful AI capabilities of integrating workflows with Python. It is a must-see for all interested in the topic. 
```

== Enable Python support

 To enable Python support you need to the python add-on dependency to your {prouct_name} module `pom.xml` file

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.kie.sonataflow</groupId>
      <artifactId>sonataflow-addons-quarkus-python</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Invoking embedded Python script.

{product_name} supports of execution python script in the same memory address than the running workflow.

To invoke a python script the first step is to define a custom python function at the beginning of the flow. 

[source,json]
----
 "functions": [
    {
      "name": "python",
      "type": "custom",
      "operation": "script:python"
    }
  ]
----

Once done, you can use that function several times to execute arbitrary python code. The python code is provided as argument of the function call through `script` property. 

[source,json]
----
"functionRef": 

>    "name" : "Imports",

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't it be lowercase following python function naming convention?

Author: Actually this name should not be there at all ;)
